Create SaaS3.md (#821)
w3f/Grants-Program: applications/SaaS3.md

Essentially, SaaS3 is an off-chain scaling technique of layer-2 which utilizes cheap off-chain docker computation to replace high-priced on-chain WASM / EVM runtime, while still remaining computation decentralization by delegated proof of stake (DPoS) consensus and on-chain zero knowledge proof. 
Therefore, such layer-2 off-chain scaling is not only for computation price but technical development stacks compatible. 
The SaaS3 project aims to decentralize computational providers and mint income-NFT to earn profits.
The API creators could earn an income fee by holding those iNFT or selling them on NFT marketplace.  
As a result, the SaaS3 project will bridge web2 APIs to web3 dAPIs to flourish web3 ecosystem and achieve creator economy in a decentralized and trust-minimized way. 
This grant will allow us to develop several pallets to implement a parachain with substrate on Polkadot / Kusama. 

SaaS3 as a part of Polkadot / Kusama / web 3 Ecosystem and has the following properties:

  - Bridge - Monetize abundant web2 projects as decentralized web3 services in a very short time with extremely cheap cost. 

>   - No Middleman - Cheap fee for dAPI users or Dapp developers compare with centralized SaaS products.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - No Middleman - Cheap fee for dAPI users or Dapp developers compared to centralized SaaS products.
```

>   - Security - Improve the security for a system by PoS consensus and zero knowledge proof for miner network. Web3 dAPI are backed by token stakers (DPoS) with a reward and punishment mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Security - Improve the security for a system by PoS consensus and zero knowledge proof for miner network. Web3 dAPI is backed by token stakers (DPoS) with a reward and punishment mechanism.
```

  - Reliability - Strengthen robustness for dAPI by computation decentralization and dRuntime redundancy of miners.
  - Green - Save energy and reduce the cost by making use of spare computation resources for API computation.
  
### Protocol Details

#### Architecture

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/95557343/159788632-250f04b6-b2b9-42c5-9927-6e4487aea8ef.png)

> Decentralized docker runtime (dRuntime) is built on miner network which aims to execute dAPIs. Those dAPIs is created by API creators as a result of development labor. Computational node targets to setup the dRuntime, or better known as the 'miner', namely the party that performs the computational tasks. They are hereafter referred to as 'nodes' or 'miners'. The Dapp developer is the dAPI user, who sends requests and pays to access the dAPI. Their actions are detailed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Decentralized docker runtime (dRuntime) is built on miner network which aims to execute dAPIs. Those dAPIs are created by API creators as a result of development labor. Computational node targets to set up the dRuntime, or better known as the 'miner', namely the party that performs the computational tasks. They are hereafter referred to as 'nodes' or 'miners'. The Dapp developer is the dAPI user, who sends requests and pays to access the dAPI. Their actions are detailed below.
```

  - To access a web3 dAPI, users pay $SA3 tokens to nodes as the Gas fee and to software creators as the royalty fee. 

  - The node(s) are rewarded to execute dAPIs with dRuntime on their equipments. Importantly, each miner can run multiple dAPIs with dRuntime cache (dCache) to maximize the throughput.

  - The Creator receives the royalty fee as the reward for their commitment to the docker development; they are the author of Web2 API codes. 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/95557343/159788719-f6fb785d-65ce-4f7c-a3cb-5b0226708895.png)

##### Security & Off-chain Miner Consensus 

- Miner security - To qualify, a miner or node is required to stake a particular amount of tokens as collateral (POS). Each request for API will trigger an on-chain zero-knowledge proof check (zkc), which determines whether the node is rewarded or punished. 

> - API security - Similar to API3 insurance, API security is achieved via Delegation Proof of Staking (DPoS). Particularly, the API creator is required to stake an amount of tokens at the time of submitting the dAPI deployment. The amount is set at a default value in their first submission and is adjusted in proportion to the service income. Besides, the token holders are able to stake on the dAPIs as a collateral and share profits with API creator. The mechanism is established following the same vein of the concepts in Polkadot / Kusama, including staking, nomination, and validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- API security - Similar to API3 insurance, API security is achieved via Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS). Particularly, the API creator is required to stake an amount of tokens at the time of submitting the dAPI deployment. The amount is set at a default value in their first submission and is adjusted in proportion to the service income. Besides, the token holders are able to stake on the dAPIs as a collateral and share profits with the API creator. The mechanism is established following the same vein of the concepts in Polkadot / Kusama, including staking, nomination, and validation.
```

The same mechanism also applies to the punishment meted out for the node(s) that malfunctioned with on-chain zkc. Such a reward-and-punishment mechanism encourages nodes to act in good faith and better service quality. Hence, a much lower risk of potential cyber threats such as the Sybil attack.

##### Implementation Layers

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/95557343/155807244-b10e6228-edf9-479a-add9-b4c347f62e2e.png)

#### Technologies

1. Substrate
2. Docker
3. Virtualization Technology
4. Deep learning frameworks
5. libp2p
6. IPFS / ARWeave
7. gRPC
8. Rust
9. Substrate front-end template

> 10. Go

Reviewer: Just out of curiosity, which component(s) are you going to develop in Go?

Author: @takahser Great thanks for your approval and suggestions. But since the pull request was closed, no chance to apply your advice. If there is modifications of the project in the future, we will pull an update request to commit your suggestions and future changes together. Actually, Docker is written in the Go language. If it is necessary, we will try to add an extension beyond docker source code, but hopefully not. In addition, although this is the level2 application, could you please introduce some VCs for us. We are seeking for a seed round. Thanks again for your review efforts.

Reviewer: @SaaS3DAO sounds great, thank you for elaborating on this! Looking forward to your delivery!

    Jury will have the following options given the on-chain log records and local test results.

    - Reject - The user's sue claim is rejected, with no compensation, and the sue fee will not be refunded. Such a ruling may be on the grounds such as forged evidence and unreasonable amount of claims. Terms and conditions and regulations of SaaSDAO apply.
    - Approve
      - Miner malfunction: 
        - Which miners should be slashed. (This is multiple choices refer to on-chain log):
          - Miner1, Miner2, or Miner3
      - Slash the API service in terms of drawbacks or bugs on the service.
      

> 9. **3-zkc and gas calculation algorithm (3-zkcg)**

Author: Your concern is exactly right. To reduce the burden of tokenomics related things, 3-person zk check algorithm (3-zkc) is illustrated at here.

> We will provide a protocol / software which is similar with [AWS Lambda API Pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/pricing/) for miner, but replace dollar unit with gas. In SaaS3, miners should monitor each container's resource usage by our software to calculate gas usage i.e., `gas_used` for once API call. `rewards=gas_used*gas_price` gas_used is defined by following process with 3-zkc. Here, we illustrate the algorithm to show the procedure, a user request is sent to three miners `m1,m2,m3` at time `t=0` with user-set maximum timeout `Tmax`, there will be following scenarios: 

Author: @Noc2 Your concern is exactly right. To reduce the burden of tokenomics related things, 3-person zk check algorithm (3-zkc) is illustrated at here.

- PitchDeck: https://www.saas3.io/file/PitchDeck_SaaS3.pdf
- SaaS3 website: https://saas3.io
- pNFT Demo (move to RMRK standard soon): https://saas3.io/non-api-nft

> - Whitepaper(Beta Version): https://www.saas3.io/file/SaaS3Whitepaper.pdf

Author: @Noc2  The whitepaper(Beta version) is released here.
